---
title: "SEO and manners"
maintitle: "SEO and manners"
date: 2015/05/14
category: Search Engine Optimisation
excerpt: I remember when growing up the most emphasised family value from my parents was Manners. Manners that shows you how to communicate with different age group, different background and different personality. In fact over the years out of all the family rules, not many have left in me nor seemed practical to me, yet manner is still on top of the list. The reason is simple – I used it all the time when dealing with people I knew little.
---

I remember when growing up the most emphasised family value from my parents was Manners. Manners that shows you how to communicate with different age group, different background and different personality. In fact over the years out of all the family rules, not many have left in me nor seemed practical to me, yet manner is still on top of the list. The reason is simple – I used it all the time when dealing with people I knew little.

Things like “hand something to other people with both hands”, or “look at people’s eyes while shaking hands”, have constantly reminded me to treat the unknown with respect – because they’re more likely to judge you if you don’t. I saw an interesting connection between SEO and manners when I started work in this new booming industry. For most business, websites are the core of their online presence which are most likely to generate the first impression to their online visitors (a lot of them are first visitors or strangers). Studies shows that, it only take less than a split second to make an online visitor decide to stay or bounce off a website. Since to all the strangers, they don’t know your business nor how good your services are, which means they can simply judge your business according to your website in less than half a second! That’s heartbreaking, yet it’s undeniable reality – all your years’ efforts of building a business fails completely in today’s online competition because your websites aren’t up to standard.

Over the years in the digital world, we see so many advancements in processing power, displays, designs, usability, search algorithm and such. It’s not difficult to see why digital giants are deemed as giants – because they care about the end users, and they want their customers feel spoiled and thrilled every time there is a new product/service launch. They research, research and research; test, test and test; take every single aspect into consideration, to make sure their customers are happy.

Yes, so simple – happy end users is a unanimous goal for all the companies whom most of us buy from these days. Although the development could take years and the investments are huge, we all know if we only focus on technical stuff, if we only want to show people how good we are, if we ignore users’ experience we will eventually fail. Sadly there are people who don’t believe that, such as shonky SEOs try to take short cuts and sell cheap links to their customers. Luckily we have Google, the leader of the industry, who is also the guardian of this industry.

Similar as been cultivated with manners, learning SEO from Google has been a self-humbling experience to me. The search giant is like a great mentor trying to teach millions on this planet how to live and survive in today’s interweb ecosystem: the spam battle, the privacy consideration, the rise and fall of authorship, the semantic search behind hummingbird algorithm, all point to improving search experience.

Then why cannot we put our feet into the shoes of our new visitors and start to make our sites more user friendly to them. If your link is broken, go fix it; if many customers have concerns about your product/service, build a FAQ page or cast a video to explain those to them; if you page takes forever to load, get a faster server; if you received negative comments from your customers, see it as an opportunity to speak publicly and deal with it graciously; if your fans are so loyal who like every single product post on your social channel, go ahead invite them to share their experience about your products.

Instead of struggling with Rank Rank Rank day after day, if you could present a polished online presence to your online guests (most importantly the ones who never visited your site before), likely you will become an SEO guru and achieve robust organic performance.